Cockpit 199 (#265)
cockpit-project/cockpit-project.github.io: _posts/2019-07-24-cockpit-199.md

---
title: Cockpit 199
author: kkoukiou
date: 2019-07-24
tags: cockpit linux
slug: cockpit-199
category: release
summary: Cockpit with Logs and Services and HWInfo design updates
comments: 'true'
---

Cockpit is the [modern Linux admin interface](https://cockpit-project.org/). We
release regularly.  Here are the release notes from version 199.

### New logs design

Restyled logs across all of Cockpit.

![service-logs](/images/service-logs.png)

> ### Design and accesibility improvements on Service page

Reviewer: Let's please continue the tradition of "Page: Description", i. e "Services: Design and accesibility improvements". This is a bit different for the logs design as it affects more than one page.

> The Service Details page now has an indicator that a service status is changing.

Reviewer: Without already knowing the details (and indeed I forgot them, sorry), I don't know what that means. The screenshot does not seem to show anything "changing"?

> In addition the tabs in Service page are now accessible.

Reviewer: There are no tabs on the screenshot, so perhaps this sentence should move below the screenshot?

![service-details](/images/service-details.png)

> ### Show DIMM information on Hardware Info page

Reviewer: Likewise, "System:" prefix.

The Hardware Info page now can show information about DIMM memory, such as size, rank, speed etc.

![dimm-memory](/images/dimm-hwinfo.png)

> ### VM creation dialog now shows the recommended memory for the selected OS

Reviewer: Machines:

---
title: Cockpit 199
author: kkoukiou
date: 2019-07-24
tags: cockpit linux
slug: cockpit-199
category: release
summary: Cockpit with Logs and Services and HWInfo design updates
comments: 'true'
---

Cockpit is the [modern Linux admin interface](https://cockpit-project.org/). We
release regularly.  Here are the release notes from version 199.

### New logs design

Restyled logs across all of Cockpit.

![service-logs](/images/service-logs.png)

### Services: Design and accesibility improvements

> The enablement and runtime status of units is now represented in a clearer way.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Services and other systemd units now sport a simpler on/off state with a clear status overview.
```

![service-details](/images/service-details.png)

> In addition the tabs in Service page are now accessible.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In addition, the tabs in Service page are now accessible.
```

### System: Show DIMM information on Hardware Info page

> The Hardware Info page now can show information about DIMM memory, such as size, rank, speed etc.

Reviewer 2: "DIMM memory" is redundant, as one of the Ms stands for "memory".

I'd suggest:

```suggestion
The Hardware Info page now displays memory-related information for DIMMs, such as: size, rank, speed, and other details.
```

![dimm-memory](/images/dimm-hwinfo.png)

_Thanks to Akshit Dua for this feature!_

### Machines: VM creation dialog now shows the recommended memory for the selected OS

The VM creation dialog will now validate the memory field in order to be above

> the allowed minimum and will also show the recommended value for the selected OS.

Reviewer 2: Ugh, another broken line comment. We really should not hard wrap in Markdown files. It makes editing them more difficult. Generally, relying on an editor to wrap lines is the way to go for written text, and is what Markdown, AsciiDoc, and other formats recommend.

Anyway:

```suggestion
During VM creation, memory fields are checked for validity. The Create VM dialog now displays a recommended RAM size for the selected OS and an error appears if memory is set too low.
```

![memory-for-os](/images/recommended-memory-os.png)

### Try it out

Cockpit 199 is available now:

 * [For your Linux system](https://cockpit-project.org/running.html)
 * [Source Tarball](https://github.com/cockpit-project/cockpit/releases/tag/199)
 * [Fedora 30](https://bodhi.fedoraproject.org/updates/FEDORA-2019-2284294b43)

*[VM]: Virtual Machine

> *[DIMM]: Dual Inline Memory Module

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
*[DIMM]: Dual Inline Memory Module
*[RAM]: Random Access Memory
*[OS]: Operating System
```

Added RAM and OS.
